DEPLOYMENT_STEPS.md, before:

# 🚀 ROAM Chatbot Deployment with Vercel AI Gateway

## ✅ Completed Setup Steps

### 1. ✅ Installed Dependencies
```bash
npm install ai @ai-sdk/anthropic
```

### 2. ✅ Created API Route
- **File**: `api/chatbot/route.ts`
- **Purpose**: Handles AI requests through Vercel AI Gateway with streaming
- **Model**: Claude-4-sonnet (latest and most capable model)
- **Feature**: Real-time streaming responses
- **API Key**: Optional AI Gateway API key support

### 3. ✅ Updated Chatbot Components
- **ChatbotContext**: Now uses `/api/chatbot` with streaming support
- **Model**: Upgraded to Claude-4-sonnet
- **Added**: Vercel AI Gateway integration with optional API key

### 4. ✅ Environment Configuration
- **File**: `.env.local` (for development)
- **Variable**: `AI_GATEWAY_API_KEY=AMk4EoHhZgcmtuALLZHerMNH`
- **Purpose**: Enhanced AI Gateway access

## 🎯 Next Steps (For You to Complete)

### 1. Enable AI Gateway in Vercel
1. Go to your **Vercel project dashboard**
2. Navigate to **Settings → Integrations**
3. Find **"AI Gateway"** and click **Enable**
4. **No API keys needed** - Vercel handles everything automatically!

### 2. Deploy to Production
```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Add Vercel AI Gateway for ROAM chatbot"
git push
```

### 3. Verify Deployment
1. After deployment completes, visit your live site
2. Click the floating chatbot button (bottom right)
3. Check for **green connection dot** = ✅ Connected
4. Send a test message to verify AI responses

## 🔧 What Changed

### Before (Claude API Direct):
```typescript
// Old approach - required API keys
const response = await fetch('https://api.anthropic.com/v1/messages', {
  headers: { 'x-api-key': process.env.VITE_CLAUDE_API_KEY },
  // ... complex setup
});
```

### After (Vercel AI Gateway):
```typescript
// New approach - no API keys needed!
const response = await fetch('/api/chatbot', {
  method: 'POST',
  body: JSON.stringify({
    message: userMessage,
    userContext: userContext,
    userData: userData
  })
});
```

## 🎉 Benefits of Vercel AI Gateway

- **🔑 No API Key Management** - Vercel handles authentication
- **⚡ Automatic Optimization** - Global edge caching and routing
- **🛡️ Built-in Security** - Rate limiting and abuse protection
- **📊 Usage Analytics** - Monitor usage through Vercel dashboard
- **🔄 Automatic Fallbacks** - Handles API failures gracefully
- **💰 Cost Optimization** - Smart routing and caching reduces costs

## 🧪 Testing Checklist

After deployment, test these scenarios:

### For All Users:
- [ ] Floating chat button appears
- [ ] Chat modal opens/closes properly
- [ ] Connection status shows green dot
- [ ] Basic questions get AI responses

### For Authenticated Users:
- [ ] User context is loaded correctly
- [ ] Role-specific quick actions appear
- [ ] Personalized responses based on user data
- [ ] Data refresh button works

### For Different Roles:
- [ ] **Customer**: Booking questions, provider search
- [ ] **Provider**: Schedule questions, earnings info
- [ ] **Owner**: Business analytics, booking management
- [ ] **Admin**: Platform statistics, user management

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### If chatbot shows red connection dot:
1. Check Vercel deployment status
2. Ensure AI Gateway is enabled in Vercel settings
3. Look for errors in Vercel function logs
4. Verify `/api/chatbot` endpoint is accessible

### If responses are generic:
1. Check user authentication status
2. Verify Supabase data loading
3. Use "Refresh Data" button in chatbot
4. Check browser console for errors

## 📁 File Structure Summary

```
├── api/
│   └── chatbot/
│       └── route.ts              # ✅ New AI Gateway API route
├── client/
│   ├── contexts/
│   │   └── ChatbotContext.tsx    # ✅ Updated to use new API
│   └── components/
│       ├── ChatBot.tsx           # ✅ Uses context
│       └── FloatingChatBot.tsx   # ✅ Uses context
├── CHATBOT_SETUP.md              # ✅ Updated documentation
└── DEPLOYMENT_STEPS.md           # ✅ This file
```

## 🎯 Ready for Production!

Your ROAM chatbot is now configured to use Vercel AI Gateway. Simply enable AI Gateway in your Vercel dashboard and deploy! 

The chatbot will provide personalized assistance to your users with:
- Role-based responses
- Real-time user data integration
- Intelligent booking assistance
- Platform navigation help

**No API keys to manage, no rate limits to worry about - just deploy and it works!** 🚀

Commit message:

Update next steps for environment variables
cgen-adcb18cd870849b4b7b982ca18ef0e0a

DEPLOYMENT_STEPS.md, after:

# 🚀 ROAM Chatbot Deployment with Vercel AI Gateway

## ✅ Completed Setup Steps

### 1. ✅ Installed Dependencies
```bash
npm install ai @ai-sdk/anthropic
```

### 2. ✅ Created API Route
- **File**: `api/chatbot/route.ts`
- **Purpose**: Handles AI requests through Vercel AI Gateway with streaming
- **Model**: Claude-4-sonnet (latest and most capable model)
- **Feature**: Real-time streaming responses
- **API Key**: Optional AI Gateway API key support

### 3. ✅ Updated Chatbot Components
- **ChatbotContext**: Now uses `/api/chatbot` with streaming support
- **Model**: Upgraded to Claude-4-sonnet
- **Added**: Vercel AI Gateway integration with optional API key

### 4. ✅ Environment Configuration
- **File**: `.env.local` (for development)
- **Variable**: `AI_GATEWAY_API_KEY=AMk4EoHhZgcmtuALLZHerMNH`
- **Purpose**: Enhanced AI Gateway access

## 🎯 Next Steps (For You to Complete)

### 1. Set Environment Variables in Vercel
1. Go to your **Vercel project dashboard**
2. Navigate to **Settings → Environment Variables**
3. Add: `AI_GATEWAY_API_KEY` = `AMk4EoHhZgcmtuALLZHerMNH`
4. Set for: **Production, Preview, and Development**

### 2. Enable AI Gateway in Vercel
1. Still in your Vercel project dashboard
2. Navigate to **Settings → Integrations**
3. Find **"AI Gateway"** and click **Enable**
4. API key will enhance access and features

### 3. Deploy to Production
```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Add Vercel AI Gateway for ROAM chatbot"
git push
```

### 3. Verify Deployment
1. After deployment completes, visit your live site
2. Click the floating chatbot button (bottom right)
3. Check for **green connection dot** = ✅ Connected
4. Send a test message to verify AI responses

## 🔧 What Changed

### Before (Claude API Direct):
```typescript
// Old approach - required API keys
const response = await fetch('https://api.anthropic.com/v1/messages', {
  headers: { 'x-api-key': process.env.VITE_CLAUDE_API_KEY },
  // ... complex setup
});
```

### After (Vercel AI Gateway):
```typescript
// New approach - no API keys needed!
const response = await fetch('/api/chatbot', {
  method: 'POST',
  body: JSON.stringify({
    message: userMessage,
    userContext: userContext,
    userData: userData
  })
});
```

## 🎉 Benefits of Vercel AI Gateway

- **🔑 No API Key Management** - Vercel handles authentication
- **⚡ Automatic Optimization** - Global edge caching and routing
- **🛡️ Built-in Security** - Rate limiting and abuse protection
- **📊 Usage Analytics** - Monitor usage through Vercel dashboard
- **🔄 Automatic Fallbacks** - Handles API failures gracefully
- **💰 Cost Optimization** - Smart routing and caching reduces costs

## 🧪 Testing Checklist

After deployment, test these scenarios:

### For All Users:
- [ ] Floating chat button appears
- [ ] Chat modal opens/closes properly
- [ ] Connection status shows green dot
- [ ] Basic questions get AI responses

### For Authenticated Users:
- [ ] User context is loaded correctly
- [ ] Role-specific quick actions appear
- [ ] Personalized responses based on user data
- [ ] Data refresh button works

### For Different Roles:
- [ ] **Customer**: Booking questions, provider search
- [ ] **Provider**: Schedule questions, earnings info
- [ ] **Owner**: Business analytics, booking management
- [ ] **Admin**: Platform statistics, user management

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### If chatbot shows red connection dot:
1. Check Vercel deployment status
2. Ensure AI Gateway is enabled in Vercel settings
3. Look for errors in Vercel function logs
4. Verify `/api/chatbot` endpoint is accessible

### If responses are generic:
1. Check user authentication status
2. Verify Supabase data loading
3. Use "Refresh Data" button in chatbot
4. Check browser console for errors

## 📁 File Structure Summary

```
├── api/
│   └── chatbot/
│       └── route.ts              # ✅ New AI Gateway API route
├── client/
│   ├── contexts/
│   │   └── ChatbotContext.tsx    # ✅ Updated to use new API
│   └── components/
│       ├── ChatBot.tsx           # ✅ Uses context
│       └── FloatingChatBot.tsx   # ✅ Uses context
├── CHATBOT_SETUP.md              # ✅ Updated documentation
└── DEPLOYMENT_STEPS.md           # ✅ This file
```

## 🎯 Ready for Production!

Your ROAM chatbot is now configured to use Vercel AI Gateway. Simply enable AI Gateway in your Vercel dashboard and deploy! 

The chatbot will provide personalized assistance to your users with:
- Role-based responses
- Real-time user data integration
- Intelligent booking assistance
- Platform navigation help

**No API keys to manage, no rate limits to worry about - just deploy and it works!** 🚀
